# REPPER
#### Video Demo:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X4oZyLlaXNA&ab_channel=SamWoodall
#### Description:

Repper is a fitness tracker aimed for those who enjoy participating in weightlifting at the gym, either for strength or muscle building purposes. I wanted to create this as I have be using excel to track my workouts for a very long time and switching between sheets, trying to find workouts, previous milestones etc became very difficult as my time went on. Other apps definitely do exist but I wanted to make something which basically emulated my excel tracking in a concise, navigatable form without the uneccesary clutter which came with these other apps or the finnicky mobile functionality of excel on mobile. I decided to run with flask, bootstrap as this is what I was most familiar with after the lectures. I did want to create an iOS app but came across problems with access to the studio required to do so. In the end it was the correct choice as completing finance had given me a level of comfort with the two frameworks. In the future I would like to adapt it to be availble on iOS but that is a goal for the future.

Overall, the design is very minimalist. Data is presented mostly in tables. I was trying to create something functional with focus on the workout, not on fancy design features likely to distract. My ability with bootstrap, CSS and HTML was also, of course, a limiiting factor. Once I am more comfortable with these I would be partial to going back and making things look somewhat more modern.

The landing page will bring you to either register for an account or login to an existing account. After this you will be taken to home in which you are prompted to choose a workout plan. If chosen, it will show your last logged workout for that plan, and your next one to come. A python script is run to analyse the dates in the database of logged workouts to determine what your last one was and then searches to find what your next one will be. Any exercises that the app has discovered that you are ready to move up in weight with a button to update the SQL to increase weight is also displace. The button takes info from the table row and executes and SQL statement to update the database. This will also be displayed now the next time you run that workout along with resetting your goal reps to reflect the increase in weight

Adding a workout, the user is prompted to enter a name if creating a new workout, or choose from a drop down menu, an existing workout to add to. Using another menu they are able to select the day that they would like to add the workout and buttons are available linked to JavaScript which will add or remove a row for the user to input the name of the exercise, the weight, the increment which is how much the weight will move up if the max reps is achieved,how many sets, and the their minimum reps to achieve and maximum. Once submitted the flask gets list of all the info and a for loop is ran to add it all sequentially to the database. Once this is done the workout is ready to be ran.

workouts.html will the allow the user to view each day they have added to a certain workout plan, and they can also delete or use the edit button to make changes. Each button runs functions which execute SQL states to Delete or Update information. There is an extra prompt to check the user definitaly wants to delete the workout. Edit will take the user to another page with input fields for each workout variable. Once they have updated the information as they please they can submit to update the database. I thought it was important to have this freedom because sometimes you need to change workouts on the fly. Editing this way does not affect the functionality of other areas of the application.

logging.html allows the user to select which workout they want to log. this is what they would open if they were in the gym. it displays in rows the exercise, their rep goal for that day and the weight, with input fields for the reps they achieve for each set. this is then uploaded to the database for future reference on pressing the submit button. The workouts database was created entirely for this function and stores each workout, the weight, the reps they achieved and the date of the workout so other functions can differntiate new workouts from older ones.

stats.html displays all logged workouts for a certain day for the user to view their progress, how close they are to moving up weight etc. Originally I wanted to make this page have graphs and charts to visually represent the data. However after researching how to do this I decided that it would be a feature that I would like to add at a later date and instead opted to simply display rows of previous workouts for the user to view themselves.


Overall, the app works well to create a somewhat seamless experience to aid the progress tracking of your workout. As for improvements, I would like to add the ability to add different types of progression to the workouts. Currently, it only supports what is called 'double progression' but there are many types of progression which are also commonly used so it would be good to support those. Visually, I would like to overhall it completely, adding animations, inscreen prompts, transitions etc. but I will have to dedicate more time to learning front end systems in order to achieve that. I would also like to make it more secure, hashing more information, and figuring out different ways the user made be able to add information incorrectly and crash the systems. In conclusion, I am happy with this app to the extent that I am ready to submit it to CS50 but I seek to keep it as a project I consistantly update and add features as I get more competant with programming. Thank you CS50!